---
title: Host discovery with Nmap
keywords: nmap, ip, address, api, services
last_updated: September 2020
summary: "How to use nmap to scan your network"
sidebar: main_sidebar
permalink: discover-nmap.html
---


As part of your cloud migration journey, it is important to have all the tools at your disposal. To facilitate the discovery process, you can use [Nmap](https://nmap.org/) in addition to [the other discovery methods](https://guides.tidalmg.com).

With Nmap's powerful capabilities and good [documentation](https://nmap.org/book/host-discovery-find-ips.html), you can identify all the hosts you have running on your network, open ports, and running services. It possible to discover even those places which are often hard to reach.

<!-- The way it works is very simple. 

The power of Nmap makes  -->


Nmap is capable of producing its output in an XML file. It allows you to inspect the raw scan output before sending it to the Tidal Migrations API with [Tidal Tools](https://get.tidal.sh). Once uploaded to the Tidal Migrations Platform, you will be able to visualize your network devices, track your complete server inventory and build on this data with other discovery methods. That's how you can make informed decisions on your cloud migration path.


## Using Nmap with Tidal Tools
By leveraging the power of **Tidal Tools**, you can send the output generated by Nmap to your Tidal Migrations account.
1. Install [Tidal Tools](https://guides.tidalmg.com/tidal-tools.html)
2. [Login to Tidal Tools](https://guides.tidalmg.com/tidal-tools.html#login) with **Tidal login**
3. Run Nmap ([Need to install Nmap?](#installing-nmap)) with the flags of your choosing and save the output to an XML file. For example,
    ```
    sudo nmap -sV -p80,443,8080,8443,1433,1521,27017 <ip-address/range> -oX my-network.xml
    ```
    _Note: the **-sV** flag will attempt to determine the version of the service running on port and the **-oX** specifies the output as an XML file. [Want more scanning options?](#nmap-usage)_
    {% include tip.html content="Be sure to replace <ip-address/range> with the CIDR range for the network you would like to scan, ex. `10.0.0.0/24`" %}
 
4. Run this Tidal Tools command to upload your previously generated Nmap output to your Tidal Migrations account 
```
tidal sync nmap <filename.XML> 
``` 
5. Head over to your Tidal Migrations account! (https://<account_name>.tidalmg.com/#/labs/host_discovery)
 
## Installing Nmap
Nmap ("Network Mapper") is a free and open source utility for network discovery and security auditing. Many systems and network administrators also find it useful for tasks such as network inventory, managing service upgrade schedules, and monitoring host or service uptime.
 
You can find all the documentation on its official site [Nmap](https://nmap.org/) and instructions for how to download based on your environment [download](https://nmap.org/download.html)


## Nmap usage
{% include callout.html content="Note: Currently, Tidal Migrations supports the collection of Hosts (IP addresses), PTR records, their open ports, the ports status, the port protocol (TCP/UDP), and the services running in the port, including the version."  type="primary"%}
Nmap offers a wide range of utilities and commands, such as Port scanning, Host discovery, Service and version detection to name a few. Here some basic examples for how to do some nmap scanning.
_NB: Some commands require super-user privilege._
 
### Target Specification
 
```
nmap 192.168.1.1-254                # Scan a range
 
```
 
### Scan Techniques
 
```
nmap 192.168.1.1 -sS                # TCP SYN port scan (Default)
 
nmap 192.168.1.1 -sT                # TCP connect port scan (Default without root privilege)
 
nmap 192.168.1.1 -sU                # UDP port scan
 
```
 
### Host Discovery
 
```
nmap 192.168.1.1-3 -sL              # No Scan. List targets only
 
nmap 192.168.1.1/24 -sn             # Disable port scanning. Host discovery only.
 
nmap 192.168.1.1-5 -Pn              # Disable host discovery. Port scan only.
```
