---
title: Analyze your HTTP Web Logs
parent: Tidal Tools
keywords: source, assessment, readiness, analyze
last_updated: May, 2023
summary: "Analyze HTTP web logs to see insights on an applications usage patterns over time."
sidebar: main_sidebar
permalink: analyze-logs.html
folder: tidaltools
---
Not sure when the best time to perform a migration cut over is?
With Tidal, you have the option to analyze the HTTP web logs associated with your applications.

The analysis will provide relevant insights regarding request volumes, users, and bandwidth usage patterns over time.
This information can be taken into account when planning and scheduling the optimal window for the migration.

It is capable of analyzing HTTP logs generated by **Apache**, **IIS**, and **NGINX**.

{: .note }
The analysis does not collect any data.

## Perform the analysis

Perform the HTTP log analysis and obtain a PDF report. This is Tidal Tools' default behaviour.
To do so, all you need to do is run the following command.

```bash
tidal analyze logs [path/to/log_file]
   ```

   Alternatively, you can pass the location or even wildcard to analyze multiple HTTP log files.
   Non-supported files will be skipped.

```bash
tidal analyze logs [/path/to/log_folder] [/path/to/other_folder]/*.log
```

## Upload log analysis
If you would like to preserve the log analysis results, you can do so by uploading only the log analysis metadata.
This can help track the changes and allow you to easily generate reports.

You can get started by running log analysis:

```bash
tidal analyze logs [directory] --json
```

And upload the produced JSON log analysis result file by using the following command:

```bash
tidal analyze logs upload [file] --app-id [app_id_for_your_application]
```

{: .note }
The log analysis result data must be uploaded manually.

## Converting JSON to PDF reports
If your log anaysis data has been exported to JSON for reusability, or you would like to
convert saved data into PDF, you can do so by running:

```bash
tidal analyze logs generate [file]
```

This will convert a JSON result into a PDF report.
